README.md, before:

# Classcat

[![CI](https://img.shields.io/travis/jorgebucaran/classcat/master.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/jorgebucaran/classcat) [![Codecov](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/jorgebucaran/classcat/master.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/jorgebucaran/classcat) [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/classcat.svg)](https://www.npmjs.org/package/classcat)

Classcat is a declarative string builder optimized for DOM [`className`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/className) properties. 

Each class can be conditionally added and removed depending on the falsiness of the value it is paired with. Here is a button you can toggle on and off. Go ahead and [try it online](https://codepen.io/jorgebucaran/pen/NYgLwG?editors=0010).

```jsx
import cc from "classcat"

export const ToggleButton = ({ isOn }) => (
  <div class="btn">
    <div
      class={cc({
        circle: true,
        off: !isOn,
        on: isOn
      })}
    />
    <span class={cc({ textOff: !isOn })}>{isOn ? "ON" : "OFF"}</span>
  </div>
)
```

## Features

- Tiny ([300B](https://bundlephobia.com/result?p=classcat))
- Zero dependency
- 5x [faster](#benchmark-results) drop-in replacement for JedWatson/classNames
- Framework agnostic — use with React, Preact, Hyperapp — your choice!

## Installation

<pre>
npm i <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/classcat">classcat</a>
</pre>

Don't want to set up a build environment? Download classcat from a CDN and it will be globally available through the `window.classcat` object. Classcat works in all browsers >= IE9.

```html
<script src="https://unpkg.com/classcat"></script>
```

## Usage

Classcat expects an array of elements _or_ an object of key/value pairs and joins all the elements in the array and object keys. [Falsy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Falsy) array elements and object properties will be ignored. Single string or number values need not be in an array.

```jsx
import cc from "classcat"

cc("foo") //=> "foo"

cc({ foo: true, bar: false }) //=> "foo"

cc([{ foo: true, bar: false }, "baz"]) //=> "foo baz"

cc([null, { foo: true, bar: false }, "baz", 0, undefined]) //=> "foo baz"
```

Arrays will be recursively flattened as per the rules above.

```jsx
cc(["foo", ["bar", { baz: true, bam: false }]]) //=> "foo bar baz"
```

[Variable number of arguments](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions/arguments) are not supported. Wrap multiple arguments in an array.

```js
cc("foo", "bar", "baz") //=> "foo"
```

Use to set the class/className of an element created with your chosen view framework.

```jsx
const popupView = popup => (
  <div
    class={cc({
      popup: true,
      "popup-important": popup.isImportant,
      "popup-seen": popup.isSeen
    })}
  >
    {popup.content}
  </div>
)
```

## API

### default(names)

#### names

A number, string, object or array. Objects consist of className/value pairs. Arrays are recursively reduced, therefore elements can be of any type aforementioned. Truthy values are added to the output, falsy values are ignored.

```js
cc(["foo", "bar", { baz: true, bam: false }, undefined]) //=> "foo bar baz"
```

## Benchmark Results

All benchmarks run on a 2.4GHz Intel Core i7 CPU with 16 GB memory.

```
npm run build && npm i -C bench && npm -C bench start
```

<pre>
# Strings
<em>classcat × 15,009,674 ops/sec</em>
classnames × 3,191,312 ops/sec
clsx × 2,563,378 ops/sec

# Objects
<em>classcat × 20,053,517 ops/sec</em>
classnames × 3,479,564 ops/sec
clsx × 2,509,453 ops/sec

# Strings & Objects
<em>classcat × 11,317,394 ops/sec</em>
classnames × 3,006,549 ops/sec
clsx × 2,100,306 ops/sec

# Arrays
<em>classcat × 4,142,953 ops/sec</em>
classnames × 986,519 ops/sec
clsx × 531,326 ops/sec

# Arrays & Objects
<em>classcat × 4,892,534 ops/sec</em>
classnames × 2,354,448 ops/sec
clsx × 1,194,463 ops/sec
</pre>

## License

Classcat is MIT licensed. See [LICENSE](LICENSE.md).

Commit message:

Rewrite elevator pitch; remove Features section

README.md, after:

# Classcat

[![CI](https://img.shields.io/travis/jorgebucaran/classcat/master.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/jorgebucaran/classcat) [![Codecov](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/jorgebucaran/classcat/master.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/jorgebucaran/classcat) [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/classcat.svg)](https://www.npmjs.org/package/classcat)

Classcat is a declarative string builder optimized for DOM [`className`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/className) properties. It's tiny ([300B](https://bundlephobia.com/result?p=classcat)), [fast](#benchmark-results) and framework agnostic—use it with React, Preact, Hyperapp—your choice!

Classes are conditionally added or removed based on the falsiness of the value you pair it with. Here is an example with a button you can toggle on and off. [Try it online](https://codepen.io/jorgebucaran/pen/NYgLwG?editors=0010).

```jsx
import cc from "classcat"

export const ToggleButton = ({ isOn }) => (
  <div class="btn">
    <div
      class={cc({
        circle: true,
        off: !isOn,
        on: isOn
      })}
    />
    <span class={cc({ textOff: !isOn })}>{isOn ? "ON" : "OFF"}</span>
  </div>
)
```

## Installation

<pre>
npm i <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/classcat">classcat</a>
</pre>

Don't want to set up a build environment? Download classcat from a CDN and it will be globally available through the `window.classcat` object. Classcat works in all browsers >= IE9.

```html
<script src="https://unpkg.com/classcat"></script>
```

## Usage

Classcat expects an array of elements _or_ an object of key/value pairs and joins all the elements in the array and object keys. [Falsy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Falsy) array elements and object properties will be ignored. Single string or number values need not be in an array.

```jsx
import cc from "classcat"

cc("foo") //=> "foo"

cc({ foo: true, bar: false }) //=> "foo"

cc([{ foo: true, bar: false }, "baz"]) //=> "foo baz"

cc([null, { foo: true, bar: false }, "baz", 0, undefined]) //=> "foo baz"
```

Arrays will be recursively flattened as per the rules above.

```jsx
cc(["foo", ["bar", { baz: true, bam: false }]]) //=> "foo bar baz"
```

[Variable number of arguments](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions/arguments) are not supported. Wrap multiple arguments in an array.

```js
cc("foo", "bar", "baz") //=> "foo"
```

Use to set the class/className of an element created with your chosen view framework.

```jsx
const popupView = popup => (
  <div
    class={cc({
      popup: true,
      "popup-important": popup.isImportant,
      "popup-seen": popup.isSeen
    })}
  >
    {popup.content}
  </div>
)
```

## API

### default(names)

#### names

A number, string, object or array. Objects consist of className/value pairs. Arrays are recursively reduced, therefore elements can be of any type aforementioned. Truthy values are added to the output, falsy values are ignored.

```js
cc(["foo", "bar", { baz: true, bam: false }, undefined]) //=> "foo bar baz"
```

## Benchmark Results

All benchmarks run on a 2.4GHz Intel Core i7 CPU with 16 GB memory.

```
npm run build && npm i -C bench && npm -C bench start
```

<pre>
# Strings
<em>classcat × 15,009,674 ops/sec</em>
classnames × 3,191,312 ops/sec
clsx × 2,563,378 ops/sec

# Objects
<em>classcat × 20,053,517 ops/sec</em>
classnames × 3,479,564 ops/sec
clsx × 2,509,453 ops/sec

# Strings & Objects
<em>classcat × 11,317,394 ops/sec</em>
classnames × 3,006,549 ops/sec
clsx × 2,100,306 ops/sec

# Arrays
<em>classcat × 4,142,953 ops/sec</em>
classnames × 986,519 ops/sec
clsx × 531,326 ops/sec

# Arrays & Objects
<em>classcat × 4,892,534 ops/sec</em>
classnames × 2,354,448 ops/sec
clsx × 1,194,463 ops/sec
</pre>

## License

[MIT](LICENSE.md)
